>> David Khourshid: So
let's get to the exercise.
We're going to be working in
exercise-reducer > page.tsx.
And you can see that there's
a lot of things going on here.
This is basically just a beefed up
version of the demo that we just saw.
There's a lot of confusion over here,
a lot of state happening over here.
We have our typical submit
with IsSubmitting, IsError,
setSearchParams, etc.
And so
things get pretty complicated over here.
We also have two components, or two and
a half if you count this
random is error over here.
And we're passing in issubmitting on
submit where it's just giving back
the information.
And we're also passing the flight options
and things like that to the search
results, and we're all basing that
on some random boolean value.
So we have a pretty inefficient
way of managing states and
sharing that states between
multiple components.
And again, in your applications,
you might think that this is fine.
You might say, hey, everything works.
But even looking at this simple example,
it is a bit confusing to see
where all the states come together and
also how updates are done.
There's a lot of prop
communication happening.
So things are just really confusing.
And furthermore,
I don't think it even works fully.
So if I go to exercise on the actual UI,
I type in the destination,
whatever, Timbuktu,
set my dates and go search for
flights, sure, this will work.
It will show flights,
I'm able to select the flights.
But once I go back to search,
that information disappears.
And as a user,
I'm pretty frustrated about that.
But if we have some sort of
centralized state management,
then that information
doesn't have to disappear.
We could actually control
what that data is so
that we could show it on
the page when we get to it again.
So we're going to be doing
a bunch of things in here.
We're going to be converting
this to using useReducer and
we're going to be sharing that
reducer with those two components.
>> David Khourshid: All right, so
we're going to be refactoring this
multi-step form into using useReducer.
Now instead of just showing you, okay,
let's delete all of this code, and then
I'm going to show you the answer and we're
going to replace that code all at once.
I really want to emphasize the technique
that I've been showing you before, where
you want to be working on the refactor
side by side with the actual code.
And this is to make sure
that all of the behavior and
all of the logic is exactly the same
when you're dealing with refactors,
without doing anything destructive.
And this is especially important if
you don't have these end to end, or
unit tests, or
just enough coverage in your application.
So again,
we're going to be doing this side by side.
And the first step,
like we learned about in previous lessons,
is modeling what we want
our state to look like.
So that's why we're going to
start with the booking states.
And just based on all of our Boolean
variables, we have a status of,
we start with idle where
we haven't searched yet.
And then we're searching and
then, eventually, we get results.
We could also have an error.
There's a state for that.
We also have flight options which we
want to maintain in this state as well.
And we have our search
parameters that we want to show.
So we'll fill that out.
So we have our destination, departure,
arrival passengers is one way.
And again, this stuff comes from what
we already have on the page there.
We just want to centralize it into
one state that can be represented in
the reducer.
And let's get our initial state too.
So const initial,
let's call it BookingState,
which is going to be a BookingState.
Status, we're going to
start with the idle state.
And there's no flightOptions,
so we'll put that as null.
And also the search params
are also going to be null.
So we will just have that as null.
And then the second thing we have
to think about is the actions,
so basically,
what can happen in each state.
So we could have, for example,
let's do union over here.
We could first submit, and
this payload is going to be
everything in those search params.
So this is submitting for
the search parameters, so
that we could start the search.
And eventually, hopefully,
we'll get results.
And so the results are going
to include flight options.
And we could also go back, so type back.
And as always,
there is a possibility for an error,
we're going to have type error, too.
And now it's time to actually
build out the reducer.
So the reducer, we have the state, and
it's going to return the BookingState.
And then we're going to be
switching on our actions for now.
So first of all, when we submit, we want
to transition to the searching state.
So this is where we show the loading data.
And we're also going to be saving
the payload of that action,
which is the destination,
departure, arrival, etc.
Now we are, hopefully,
going to eventually get results.
And so that's going to allow us
to change the states too, and
change the flight options to
whatever we get from those results.
Now, right now, we're not using type
states, but this is something that
you could refactor on top of what
you have once you have this working.
Case back, we're going to go
back to that in a minute.
But let's just handle if we have an error,
then we have an error status.
And by default, if we have some sort of
unrecognized action, we return the state.
Now case back, this is interesting
because it really depends on where you're
coming from, which we're actually
going to see in the next exercise.
But only if the status is results,
do we actually want to go
back to the idle state.
Otherwise, we return the state.
So if you have a back button that is
just present on every single screen,
but you don't want it to
do the exact same thing or
go back to the same page on every screen,
then you do have to basically tell it
where to go based on the state.status.
And so that's why, especially in my
XState courses, we talk about going
based on the states first, rather
than on the actual events or actions.
But in this case, it's simple enough.
We could just check, is the state results?
Yes, let's go to idle from the result
state when the user presses
the back button.
Okay, so
now it's time to actually use these.
And we're going to go back to the app
over here, and this is the main one.
We're going to go over here.
And then we're going to use that
reducer and we have state and dispatch.
And so now just like I was talking
about with the Strangler Fig pattern,
you're going to be doing
things side by side.
So for example, when you handle submit,
you want to dispatch.
And you're going to have type submit,
and the formData as payload.
You're going to keep everything else
the same, at least for now, because again,
you're working side by side
with the existing code.
So we're going to, for example, over here,
once we have those mockFlights as
a result, we're going to dispatch that.
And then same thing here, we'll dispatch
an error, when there's an error.
And we don't actually
need this finally block.
And from here,
we could console.log the state.
So, console.log the state.
And this just allows us to see,
are we on the right track?
Is the state as we expect it to be?
But we do need to share
all of that contents too.
So we know that, just to make this easier,
we're going to have to make
a different component.
So I think I called that,
what did I call that?
Booking content, so
we are going to create that context.
So const BookingContext, we create
the context which includes the state and
a way to dispatch that action.
And then we are going to use that
context in our components, but
we need to provide it first.
So we will make a function
BookingProvider with the children,
have the state and the dispatch in there.
And then, pass that in so
that the children can use it.
And so now that way, inside the Page,
we could wrap everything
inside that BookingProvider.
So BookingProvider over here, and then
we could start to use all of this stuff.
So even without changing
anything here just yet, again,
we're making minimal changes.
We could grab, oops, not over there.
But we could grab state, dispatch, and
we could use that existing
BookingContext in there.
And so instead of onSubmit over here,
we could just dispatch,
submit, pass it in the payload.
And then, yeah, forgot that one.
And just do things side by side.
So over here,
we're keeping track of the internal state.
This, hopefully, is something you
recognize from earlier exercises
where it's like, hey, first of all,
all of this data is related.
So we could, potentially,
put it in a single object just
to clean things up a bit.
But also,
we could just read that from the form
data because this is just a simple form.
And so that's an exercise left to you, but
this is something that
you could definitely do.
So now when we try this,
even though we're not quite finished yet,
if I try this out,
I could see that once we search flights,
okay, we're logging that
the status is searching.
And now we see that the status is results.
And we also have our flight
options over here, so
we know that our reducer logic is working.
And so from there, we could go and
start just making sure that everything
works side by side, and
then start to remove the old use dates and
the old logic and replace it with
the centralized reducer pattern.
Yes?
>> Male Student 1: Why wasn't the selected
flight included in the booking state?
>> David Khourshid: You know what, that's
also an exercise left to the reader.
You could definitely include the selected
flight in the booking state.
In this case, it was just omitted.
But if the selected flight is relevant,
which in a realistic app, it is.
If it is relevant to the overall global
states that the useReducer represents,
then it should be in there, and it doesn't
need to be in the component itself.
So that's a very good point.
We could definitely put
selectedFlight over here.
But again, remembering a previous pattern,
we should use an id,
not the actual selected flight, because
we don't want to duplicate that state.
So yeah, you could definitely do that.
And then we could add an action
to select the flights,
and pass it in a string.
And then it's asking for
other stuff over here, yeah.